oh well you have a very varied career
you really do did you imagine that that
would be the case when you went to law
school no you did not know I thought
that I would probably be a lawyer and be
miserable and then they looked at you
and they said this guy is too handsome
to just be a lawyer we must get him
involved in other things no no he begged
and pleaded and uh you know worked at a
station where I was started as a
production assistant
I had a law degree and could have gone
to a law firm and uh just went from
there and your family uh supportive of
that idea yeah I mean it worked
sort of cautiously supportive I said man
they were concerned they thought oh you
know our boys a lawyer uh-huh isn't that
great and now he's going into TV yeah
and that's not so great
yeah but nevertheless they supported it
so this book let's talk about the book
for me cuz this isn't about a trial from
1770 shortly after the boston massacre
and which you know is something like to
me the boss of massacres of the you know
lakers Celtics game i never would have
thought about the actual boston massacre
explain what happened in the so so this
is an incident that almost led to the
American Revolution before the
Revolution there were five colonists who
were shot and killed by British soldiers
who were there there was a lot of
tension going on the colonists didn't
want the British soldiers there this was
that that moment that almost led to the
big fight why didn't it happen because
of this trial because the rule of law
prevailed and you had this case where we
have a transcript I mean from 1770 with
John Adams representing the British
soldiers remember this is a patriot
someone who despised in many ways the
British soldiers and the British but
felt that they had were entitled to a
legal defense and he led the defense
team in a fascinating case and one of
the things that's so amazing to me is
being able to see John Adams in his own
words it's not a speech wasn't prepared
mm-hm it's just John Adams in court
defending these British soldiers when
you say a transcript obviously they
didn't have typewriters back then this
is a guy dipping and writing as fast as
he can and he
hande got so tired at one point by the
end of the case that he had to stop and
ask the prosecution to come and tell him
what they had said again Rizal he could
rewrite it yeah because at by the end by
the closing arguments his hand was so
worn out from doing because also you
know they hadn't really perfected
shorthand or any of the things that we
know today but that's one of the things
that I just found so amazing was being
able to have that 217 page transcript
any have you seen the actual or a copy
of the actual copy of it but not the
actual you know I didn't get the actual
transcript itself but the copy of it is
again it's handwritten and it's actually
in the beginning of the book we have
little excerpts from the actual original
transcript I guess the only thing we
have I mean obviously people are soul
writing transcripts of trials but like
like at the Harvey Weinstein trial the
guy drawing pictures of Harvey Weinstein
in this private parts and say yeah well
in that case there was no camera allowed
courtroom and so and I think based on
what you're talking about it was
probably for the best in many ways but
you get a sketch artist who comes in and
draws pictures of what's happening
inside court as a legal analyst yeah are
you so Harvey Weinstein got convicted on
two of the five charges yeah were you
surprised by that um look I was a little
surprised but not in the same way that I
think a lot of people were surprised
there are a lot of people who are saying
I can't believe he didn't get convicted
of all the charges what happened I think
that people are forgetting they're
treating this as if all of the victims
that we've seen on the covers of
magazines on a website said that this
was about all of them this wasn't this
was about two women both of whom had had
relationships with him either friendship
or intimate relationship with him before
and after the incident that made this a
tough case the fact that they were able
to get convictions on both of these
women to me makes it a groundbreaking
case why because it means that we're
finally understanding what rape can be
it doesn't need to be a situation where
someone immediately calls the police
all sorts of different reactions by
women and an expert came in for the
prosecution and talked about this and
the fact that these jurors were able to
unanimously convict
despite issues that might not have
passed ten years ago I think if that
case had been brought ten years ago
there would not have been a conviction
to Russell but people now understand
better that rape victims respond in
different ways and just because someone
stayed in touch with him after the fact
does not mean she wasn't raped
interesting and and you and in a way
John Adams taking the position of
defending those British soldiers is is
similar in some ways to Harvey
Weinstein's attorneys defending Harvey
Weinstein is entitled to a defense yeah
I mean I don't begrudge Harvey
Weinstein's attorneys for taking the
case they you know they made arguments
so the question becomes the tougher
question in some of these cases becomes
when they go after the victims and how
hard they go after the victims can we
judge the lawyers in those kinds of
cases and it's a tricky question because
the defense has to be you can't believe
the accuser right the defense is it was
either consensual or didn't happen etc
and so a defense attorney has to present
a defense but there's also you know a
particularly ugly way to do it that some
attorneys do it and I think some of them
do cross the line and I think that they
do deserve some of them condemnation I
want to change the subject very quickly
to live pd which is was this your idea
this I wish it was this entertainment is
I don't even understand any how it came
to be you guys seem like a video yeah
[Applause]
[Laughter]
basically it's very similar to cops
except it's live and it's happening in
how many cities that we are in at least
eight departments at once following two
officers in each department and we're
literally bouncing from department to
department based on what's happening
where there's activity and it ranges
from everything from really serious
cases
shots fired domestic violence cases too
much lighter I mean you know this
weekend we had a a guy who was spotted
buck naked outside of someone's home it
turns out he'd been fooling around with
a woman and the boyfriend came back and
he ran out and he's buck naked out there
and and and my favorite line was when
the police come me and he said well they
didn't tell me that he was going to come
back as if they would have given you the
heads-up gonna be coming back do a
brother assault everyone's okay in this
and are you guys when this is happening
live are you guys celebrating like oh my
God look cuz I would imagine that I mean
if somebody came in pitch this to me I'd
say well what if nothing happens all
night there's never nothing nothing ever
happened
even sometimes it's just cars being
pulled over on traffic stops uh-huh and
there's drama there too you don't know
what's gonna happen next
uh-huh and that's the drama right unlike
a show like cops where it's just a
highlight reel yeah this is what's the
hey let's not denigrate College look
what you gonna do when they come for you
yeah yeah well by the way there's been a
couple of times when live P DS been out
and you hear someone in the background
sing the cops song yeah like wrong show
[Laughter]
[Applause]
show that is something else no but it's
really been an amazing experience to
watch because you really do get to see
it from the police officers perspective
yeah right you get to see much more
every day what police officers go
through because you know in the news
business we cover officer-involved
shootings right it tends to be either an
officer's fired a weapon or an officer's
been hit right and the vast majority of
police officers have never fired their
weapons mm-hmm ever and this is more the
day-to-day aspects of what police
officers do every day and that's what
the show reflects and somehow it's
become a you know I'm yeah became a
reason for people not to go out on the
wheel is called John Adams under fire
Dan Abrams everybody thank you
thanks for watching if you liked that
video click the subscribe button and if
you didn't like it will you hurt my
feelings